---
stage: Systems
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#designated-technical-writers
---

# GitLab Cloud Native Chart 8.0

Along with the `17.0` release of GitLab, we have bumped the chart version to `8.0`.

## Summary of major changes

- The legacy runner registration workflow is now disabled by default. [Manual action is needed to migrate to the new registration workflow.](#runner-workflow-changes).
- Support for PostgreSQL 13 has been removed. Make sure you are running PostgreSQL 14 or newer before upgrading.

See [GitLab 17 changes](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/update/versions/gitlab_17_changes.html#1700) for all upgrade relevant changes.

## Upgrade path from 7.x

To upgrade to the `8.0` version of the chart, you first need to upgrade to the latest `7.11.x`
release of the chart. Check the [version mapping details](../installation/version_mappings.md) for the latest patch.

### Upgrade to 8.6.0

The `app` label of the Job that performs the database migrations for the registry metadata database has
been changed from `registry` to `registry-migrations` to address issues with the selectors of the
container registry `Deployment` and `PodDisruptionBudget`.

If you don't have the registry metadata database enabled, or don't use it in any external tools
such as monitoring or logging solutions, you don't need to do anything. If you do use this label,
please update it accordingly.

### Upgrade to 8.6.x, 8.5.1, 8.4.3, 8.3.6

If you haven't modified the GitLab chart `nginx-ingress.rbac.create` value, or it's set to `true`,
you can skip this section.

In these versions, the Ingress NGINX Controller image was bumped to v1.11.2, but the Ingress NGINX Controller chart version is
still on 4.0.6. The old `v1.3.1` controller image is now deprecated and schedule for removal in GitLab chart 9.0.

By default the `v1.11.2` will be set. The chart will automatically fallback to `v1.3.1` if the you're setting
`nginx-ingress.rbac.create` to `false`. This is because `v1.11.2` requires new RBAC rules, which we added to our
[NGINX forked chart](../charts/nginx/fork.md).

If you're using managing NGINX RBAC rules by yourself, and want to use the new `v1.11.2`, apply
[the new RBAC rules to your cluster](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/charts/gitlab/-/merge_requests/3901/diffs?commit_id=93a3cbdb5ad83db95e12fa6c2145df0800493d8b)
, and enable `v1.11.2` with:

```yaml
nginx-ingress:
  rbac:
    create: false
  controller:
    image:
      disableFallback: true
```

If you're setting `nginx-ingress-geo.rbac.create: false`, the same applies.

### Runner workflow changes

The legacy runner registration workflow is now disabled by default. You must
[migrate to the new registration workflow](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/tutorials/automate_runner_creation/index.html)
or [re-enable the legacy workflow](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/settings/continuous_integration.html#enable-runner-registrations-tokens).

Refer to the [runner sub-chart documentation](../charts/gitlab/gitlab-runner/index.md#requirements)
for migration instructions.
