---
stage: Systems
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Uninstall the GitLab Helm chart

To uninstall the GitLab Helm chart, run the following command:

```shell
helm uninstall gitlab
```

For the purposes of continuity, these charts have some Kubernetes objects that
are not removed when performing `helm uninstall`. These are items we require you to
_consciously_ remove them, as they affect re-deployment should you choose to.

- PVCs for stateful data, which you must _consciously_ remove
  - Gitaly: This is your repository data.
  - PostgreSQL (if internal): This is your metadata.
  - Redis (if internal): This is cache & job queues, which can be safely removed.
- Secrets, if generated by our shared-secrets Job. These charts are designed to never generate
  Kubernetes Secrets via Helm directly. As such, Helm can't remove them. They contain passwords,
  encryption secrets, and so on. They should not be callously destroyed.
- ConfigMaps
  - `ingress-controller-leader-RELEASE-nginx`: This is generated by the NGINX Ingress controller
    itself, and is outside the control of our chart. It can be safely removed.

The PVCs and Secrets have the `release` label set, so you can find these with:

```shell
kubectl get pvc,secret -lrelease=gitlab
```

WARNING:
If you do not manually delete the secret `RELEASE-gitlab-initial-root-password`, it will be
reused in the next release. You must manually delete this password if it is exposed in any way,
for example in a recorded demo. This ensures that the exposed password can not be used to sign
into the instance in future releases.
